Federal officials have previously said they were working with states to track who has gotten a vaccine, and when they are due for their booster shots, which is three weeks later for the Pfizer vaccine and four weeks later for the Moderna one.

They have said that each weekly shipment will give priority to people who need their second dose that week, and whatever is left will go to vaccinating new people.

Last week, Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan asked the federal government for permission to buy 100,000 doses of vaccine directly from Pfizer. And on Monday, Mr.. Cuomo wrote a letter to Pfizer asking for the state to buy vaccines directly.

Pfizer and Moderna’s supply has been fully claimed for at least the first quarter of this year, meaning it’s unlikely there will be any spare vaccine to sell to individual states.


That’s pretty close to the American population of 260 million adults (the vaccines are not approved yet for children although studies are underway).

vaccines are not approved for kids. still clinical trying is there

 It should  m ake the m ost of existing distribution  and cold  storage capabilities 
Com plexity is  further increased  as over the com ing m onths, governm ents and health  system s will be transporting COVID-19 vaccines to  hundreds  and possibly  thousands of destinations —at a level  far beyond  current vaccine distribution. 
They  need  to assess the available transportation options,  check whether  airports and ports can handle  the  increased traffic, and m ap the  m any routes. 

Despite  the  high  priority  of vaccines, there should  be  m odels for the costs of transport at different  frequencies of  delivery,  to m ake the m ost cost-effective choice.

        Ultra-low-temperature freezers, which are commercially available and can extend shelf life for up to six months.
        - The Pfizer thermal shippers, in which doses will arrive, that can be used as temporary storage units by refilling with dry ice every five days for up to 30 days of storage.
        - Refrigeration units that are commonly available in hospitals. The vaccine can be stored for five days at refrigerated 2-8°C conditions.

    After storage for up to 30 days in the Pfizer thermal shipper, vaccination centers can transfer the vials to 2-8°C storage conditions for an additional five days, for a total of up to 35 days. Once thawed and stored under 2-8°C conditions, the vials cannot be re-frozen or stored under frozen conditions.














